It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong. You're watching
the China Show. I'm David Ingles with
Heidi Shrout Watts.
>> We are counting down to the open of
markets in China. Our top stories, oil
and stocks fluctuate as President Trump
signals an escalation of strikes on Iran
could come as soon as Tuesday. Korean
shares leading gains after Samsung's
blowout first quarter results. Trump
insisting that a re-opened Strait of
Hormuz will be part of any deal as he
threatens to destroy key Iranian
infrastructure if his terms aren't met.
And just ahead, we hear from Singapore's
Foreign Minister, Vivian Balakrishnan,
about the fallout from the Middle East
war and his country's relationship with
Washington. We also take a look at how
China is casting itself as a more
reliable partner for Asian nations and
what that means for the balance of power
in the region.
>> Good morning from the Asia Pacific. As
we look at markets, we are yet again
counting down to a fresh deadline.
Coming through out of the White House,
it is looking at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday.
That is Eastern time, so around this
time tomorrow. And then we move in a few
hours until the second deadline, which
takes us into about noon this time
tomorrow. Uh in Iran, of course, that
what might happen in case, of course,
there is no deal. Okay, just on that
very note here, speaking of the
inflationary impact of the oil price
shock that we're seeing,
Philippine inflation just coming through
as well, 4.1%.
Okay, just to put that into context for
you.
The The Central Bank recently had guided
towards a 3.1
to 3.9%
month ahead forward
uh inflation coming through out of the
Philippines now at 4.1%. That should
actually take that headline number back
more than 20 months ago. So, with a flip
of a switch, we now have again a four
handle on consumer price inflation.
Uh the estimates were 3.8, already quite
elevated. We are coming off, of course,
a two handle on that just to give you an
indication, of course, how much this oil
price spike has managed to lift
inflation in one emerging market almost
just like that, right? So, we'll talk
more about this later on
and have a look at as far as uh the
market reaction, but the peso on your
screens right now. Let's go take you
straight back to markets and really oil.
We had the dollar in there. We had US
futures.
Um oil is trading at about this time. Uh
can we go back to oil, please? I want to
talk about a little bit further. Um oil
and I think West Texas is interesting in
case you missed that from late last
week, right? So, prices have now
switched and as you can see, West Texas
is now a lot more expensive than where
you are with Brent, indicative, of
course, of the shift in attention in
terms of scrambling
uh for supplies. US futures are slightly
to the downside. It is a stronger dollar
story as we speak. Let's have a look at
where we are as far as the Korea story
is concerned. That's the other top story
today and perhaps
more than a distraction from what's
going on in the Middle East, it's really
the oil uh well, the AI story and a
reminder with the cost index Samsung is
doing was higher, is now lower on that
specific stock, although it was just a
blowout number coming through here out
of the company. Uh Taiwan coming online,
TSMC within that space and just going
into uh the rest of the session today.
So, we have Hong Kong is still shut
today. Cash markets, mainland markets
reopened today. Asia-Pacific up 8/10 of
1%. Um how I would have said a lot of
that is down to Korea, which has now
flipped. Singapore coming online. We
have a conversation later on out of
Singapore, so stay tuned for that. Half
of 1% in Japan and we are called higher
in a
in as far as A50 futures are concerned
coming through in
Singapore.
Heidi.
>> Now, front and center of course remains
the Middle East war and President Trump
has ramped up threats against Iranian
civilian infrastructure ahead of a
deadline that he set for Tehran to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz as follows
Tehran's rejection of the latest
ceasefire proposal on Monday.
>> We have a plan because of the power of
our military.
Where every bridge in Iran
will be decimated
by 12:00 tomorrow night. Where every
power plant in Iran will be out of
business, burning, exploding, and never
to be used again. I mean complete
demolition by 12:00 and it'll happen
over a period of 4 hours if we wanted
to.
>> Let's bring in Laura Davison, our
Bloomberg politics editor here with us
in our studio to help us understand this
new deadline and what perhaps we are
waiting for and of course we are it's
predicated on the threats of the US
pushing through. How do we need to be
looking at this new deadline?
>> Um so there's two deadlines here. One
being the 8:00 p.m. Tuesday, you know,
roughly just 24 hours from now, 23 hours
from now of when he says that there's no
deal essentially fire and fury. We're
going to, you know, unleash a bunch of
of of bombs on civilian infrastructure
sites. I'll note that is a war crime
under the Geneva Convention. Trump has
said he essentially doesn't care about
that. But that's sort of the first
deadline and then he says by by noon, 4
hours later, there will be a complete
decimation. I would take that first
deadline more seriously than the second
deadline. But still with Trump with all
of these deadlines we have seen him set
what four, five, six deadlines at this
point that he has blown right past and
have essentially been meaningless in
this. So we should, you know, kind of
keep that with a grain of salt that, you
know, there is always the possibility
there is no forcing action other than
Trump has said that this is the deadline
for this to go forward. So that we could
see, you know, a pivot, you know, even
just minutes before where he, you know,
pushes it off. He's you know, continued
to say that talks are going well with
Iran. Iran has at least publicly
disputed that that the talks are not in
fact going well, but there's a lot of
moving pieces here and I mean you know,
particularly with Trump has has laid out
what could be a massive escalation in
this war. We may see another taco there
in the final moments before.
>> And Laura, it also means that the
contours of what is considered a deal or
things are going well could completely
change in the next few hours and days
too, right?
>> Yes, we've seen you know, all sorts of
iterations of from from Trump on what he
wants from a deal, what constitutes a
deal, what is critical you know, to you
know, him signing off on an agreement.
You know, we heard last week that the
Strait of Hormuz wasn't the US's problem
anymore and he was going to leave that
to allies. Now he's saying that's a
central point of you know, whatever
deal, whatever he wants to see you know,
in the next 23 hours or so. So there's a
lot of
changes that could happen here. So
there's there's you know, kind of
I deal is in the eye of beholder here
and really it's whatever Trump you know,
decides is or is not a deal. You know,
I'll note that there seems to be a lot
of moving pieces on the military front.
You know, the Pentagon was supposed to
have a press briefing here in about 12
hours. They have canceled that without
any explanation. So there's you know,
seems to be a lot of you know, either
you know, not wanting to appear in front
of the press or you know, last minute
preparations happening on the US side as
we're in this critical crunch period.
>> Now we're coming off a long weekend.
Most markets were shut. A lot of people
are just refreshing themselves on the
latest shares. On top of all this, we
had conversations around perhaps a
ceasefire, 45 days. Have we heard also
from the Iranians in as far as this
conversation is concerned?
>> Yes, so this is one of the one of the
options that that Trump has said you
know, the White House has said rather
that that he's considering. Iran came
out and said, "No, we are rejecting this
out of hand. If there's any sort of
ceasefire, we want a permanent ceasefire
that adheres to some of the other
stipulations that they've put out of you
know, assurances that there won't be
further attacks you know, on their proxy
groups as well. So you know, again like
a lot of these these deals that we've
seen like the US float, you know, or
possible deals, you know, Iran has
essentially said, "No, this is not
possible." But, the fact that the US is
now talking about some sort of temporary
ceasefire, some sort of short-term
thing, you know, indicates that maybe
there's some sort of interim path to be
had here. But, as of now, that is not
you know, this was always going to be a
long shot and and was was shot down very
quickly.
>> All right, Davis and Bloomberg politics
editor with the latest on the Iran war.
We're also watching
shares when it comes to Samsung this
morning after the company reported an
eight-fold leap in preliminary quarterly
profit. It underscores strong demand for
AI memory chips despite uncertainties
triggered by geopolitics and the ongoing
war. Bloomberg's Min Luo joins us now.
So, it seems like
the company is quite insulated from the
impact of the war so far.
>> That's right. I mean, it's really really
impressive preliminary numbers you're
talking about an eight-fold increase
much higher than average analyst
estimates. In fact, 45% higher than what
analysts have been projecting. And you
think about it, what they made in the
first quarter alone is more than what
they made in the entirety of last year.
And that really points to the strong
robust demand for AI chips, right?
Whether you're talking about HBM chips
or DRAM chips, there's been a lot of
shortages that's pushing up prices of
DRAM by about 64% on year in the first
quarter alone. So, that has been
supportive for the company's earnings.
But, bear in mind, this is probably
reflecting demand that is pre-war. And
there might be a bit of a lag effect,
right? We've been talking about, for
example, helium disruption, you know,
how long can this sustain before the
earnings of these industry players is
felt because you look at the broader
industry, SK Hynix also seeing record
profits, Samsung as well. We had Hon Hai
reporting over the weekend and also
seeing very solid profits meeting
analyst estimates. So, so far for now,
it seems like the entire sector is doing
very well despite concerns of Iran war
built
pushing up energy prices. Also shrugging
off those concerns of AI compression
from Google's Turbo Quant as well.
>> Okay. Now, the it's it's important to
note if folks got in at the bottom,
recent bottom in Samsung, they were up I
mean they're now 20 20%. It seems that a
company, if you were on the bullish
side, seems to be insulated from what
whatever else is going on. Are there
headwinds that are not too apparent at
this point that we're looking at the
this fundamental story?
>> Yeah, I mean the headwinds, of course,
from the Iran war. Right now, the
concern is if fuel prices is pushed up,
all these data centers that are heavily
reliant on energy is going to weigh on
the demand and then that then has a
trickle up effect to the upstream
manufacturers, right? And then there's
raw material prices that is going up. A
supply disruption, whether it's helium
or other materials that are disrupted
because of the war. All of that it could
take maybe 3 to 6 months to be felt. So,
maybe the second half of the year that's
when we want to pay attention to the
earnings growth and whether they can
sustain the current momentum. But, of
course, these are sort of circumstantial
sort of disruption, but the underlying
structural demand has still been very
strong.
>> Right. Min Min, thank you so much. Min
Min Loh on the Samsung story. So, you
have two things really weighing or
markets are weighing currently, right?
There's the AI story, there's Iran, and
two are actually giving us both to talk
about today. So, we'll unpack really how
do we need to be thinking about those
two things. Morningstar will be joining
us in a couple of minutes. The Asia
Equity Research Reports Director will be
joining us in a couple of minutes here
to talk to us through their base case,
right? How do we need to be looking at
the war? What do we discount for that?
But, also what are we ignoring? Are
there things that are happening
underneath the hood that investors
should also be paying
attention to. We are counting down to
the reopen of mainland markets in
Shanghai and in Shenzhen 19 minutes
away. A reminder that Hong Kong is still
shut. This Tuesday, this is the China
Show. Good morning.
Right, welcome back. So, two deadlines
to take note of in as far as the
uh Iran war is concerned, 8:00 p.m.
Eastern Time
Tuesday is the deadline the US president
has set for a Iran to make a deal and a
few hours after that is of course when
he's
uh threatened to unleash all hell
uh on civilian targets. Also, a reminder
of the
uh inflation print coming out of the
Philippines a few minutes back. I guess
it's a reminder of what still is to come
in as far as EM inflation is concerned.
Inflation was up and a further 1.7%.
That was the net change in percentage
points from Feb to March. In context,
1.7%
is the biggest jump month-to-month going
back at least 26 years, Heidi. So, this
inflation story's not done just yet.
>> Okay, let's bring in Lorraine Tan from
Singapore. She's the director of Asia
equity research at Morningstar.
Lorraine, great to have you with us.
There's just so much uncertainty, right?
And you can see that in the whipsaw
price action. But, do you feel that
investors are still There's still a
layer of complacency here because
despite very strong words, um explosive
words from President Trump, there is
this still this expectation that he will
back down.
>> Yeah, I think I think the track record
sort of
uh sort of
supports that in essence, but um
I think we I think looking I think our
base case view is pretty much that this
should be resolved in the second quarter
by June. I think um
um
couple things is that uh the longer I
mean there's a few things that's that
could happen. Uh the main thing is that
the Strait of Hormuz needs to have a
start allowing more tankers to go
through. Whether that's through um some
action a resolution to the conflict or
uh
countries you know getting on board with
Iranians desire to to have a toll
collection or allow certain tankers to
go through.
If that is relieved um somewhat, I think
we should have a little bit of a
pressure of all uh reduced. I mean our
base case view is still that there
should be some resolution by the end of
this quarter and we do expect oil prices
to gradually come down to about $70 by
the end of the year.
>> What do you see as the biggest winners
and losers? Because obviously Asia as a
region seeing that outside hit from the
inflation impact from the oil impact,
but this is
markets that are relatively secluded
too, right? Like China.
>> Yes, so China has been very um has been
resilient. They've got a diversified
energy mix. They were able to pick up
barrels of oil from West Africa uh to
supplement their needs. They have
strategic reserves. So in fact in China
you're still talking about um
you know electricity tariffs being
coming down because there's excess
capacity for example. So there's not the
same sort of energy cost pressure in
China for example, although you know
petrol prices have gone up. Um so we
still expect China to be more longer
term story of of trying to deal with the
deflation and obviously trying to get
some consumption and growth to be on
firmer uh firmer footing basically.
>> So Lorraine, David here. The it it's
actually I think a positive thing that
markets have reacted almost as expected
where you have to your point more
insulated markets and sectors and
factors doing well.
And here's sort of EM net energy
importers and their currencies have
actually been at the bottom.
As we come out of this and hopefully
very soon, what
factors, markets, or sectors do you
think then leads that recovery higher?
>> Yeah, so main thing always coming out of
the geopolitical event is that there's
generally a relief. And I think if you
look at where valuations are um
this even if you whether you look at a
China or Japan, which is you know uh
Japan being slightly more fairly valued
after having a good run-up, I think it's
the consumer sectors that are where
we're seeing deeper value. It's also the
um
companies that were sold down because of
the sa- well, we'll call it SAS
apocalypse, basically AI disruption
risk.
Those are the stocks and the sectors
where we're seeing a little bit more of
potential of a bounce because they are
cheaper in essence.
>> Oh, which I guess
almost forces my hand Lorraine to talk
about what's happening in in Korea and
this this prelim earnings report coming
out of Samsung is almost a reminder that
hey, there is something else going on
there. Do you think what's going on in
Korea has been fully priced this memory
shortage and is it too late to get into
that is my question really?
>> Yeah, we're we're actually one of the
few people I think that are still that
are negative in terms of
our call on Samsung and the memory side
is because we feel that capacity is
going to come through and you know,
memory prices will start to come down
basically towards the second half of
2027. So yes, you're going to have a
nice earnings
you know, performance still for the next
uh 12 18 months perhaps, but then we're
going to start to see things come down.
As you know, the market tends to look 6
months in advance, so we tend to feel
that it's a little bit uh risky to go
into jump in these these stocks at the
moment. We do have other preferences. We
think longer-term chip plays are more
uh interesting right now, have more
potential upside uh versus risk, sort of
like a TSMC
um as well as uh um
uh um a TDK in Japan. So, Advantest as
well. So, those are some of the
companies that we have preference at the
moment over um the memory players.
>> All right. Now, when it comes to
Japanese stocks, do you find value there
at the moment?
>> Very selectively. Interestingly, um
uh some of the the pullback as I mean,
the broad Japanese market we think is
still fairly valued, but the pullback
has allowed uh some sectors to come
through, some value to come through in
certain sectors. Uh we are selective,
obviously, in a few names, but do we are
seeing more potential in the tech
technology names that have
uh pulled back recently. As I mentioned,
there's uh Renesas, Advantest, uh TDK
that we think are relatively attractive
at these levels. Um we also, as I
mentioned, um think that the gaming
companies both in uh Hong Kong, China as
well as in Japan that have pulled back
on the AI risk concerns to be of of uh
uh good value because we do think the
selling there was indiscriminate. These
companies do have uh competitive
advantages. We think they'll have time
over the next 5 years to strengthen that
out, and so we're still, you know,
favorable on stocks like uh Tencent, uh
Sanrio, um and um as well as uh Koei
Tecmo, for example, in Japan.
>> And a couple of more sort of
China-adjacent picks there as well.
There seems to be a view that the on the
macro front, the data seems to just be
stabilizing, That perhaps this is a new
normal of growth for China, but things
aren't looking too bad. There might not
be big bank stimulus, but things are
kind of just tracking along. Does that
give some opportunities as consumers,
for example, start to stabilize?
>> Yeah, so one of the date I mean, you
know, we're we're going to see what
happens with the the sentiment on the
Iran war, but one of the things that
helps obviously as I mentioned with the
with China is because they're not seeing
the same level of of a cost pressures uh
to weigh on consumption. But we were
seeing some signs of some improvements
in some of the base consumer data. It's
still very slow, but things like if you
look like Heidi Lau's uh table turnover,
um the wage growth that we see in the
new economy sector, um and then some of
the surveys that were taken in terms of
preference for consumption over
investment and savings, those things
were actually looking a little bit
better, a little bit firmer. So we do
feel that um for for investors who are
looking maybe a little bit further out a
couple years still, um that uh you know,
there are very there are names here that
are relatively attractive. Sort of like
a Yum China is one of our favorite picks
for a while on the restaurant space. I
think we have to remember that China's
per capita consumption per capita
spending is still relatively low
compared to countries like uh even
Mexico. Uh obviously the the you know,
the US uh for example being on the top
of that list. So there's a lot of still
uh a long runway in terms of the
spending capability.
>> Lorraine, to what extent do we need to
start pricing in and just talking about
the I think the consumer story in China
and marrying that with uh perhaps
there's early early signs of inflation
coming through.
Uh pricing in the return of inflation in
China. When you look at I I just yield
curve, for example, it's deepening and
there seems to be early innings of early
signs of that happening.
>> Yes, it's early. I think it's going to
be a bit slow still and it's a little
bit to be honest, it's fragile because
you've got all these macro events going
on as well. So, but we do think that a
lot of the negative
factors have been priced in. So,
therefore we are seeing that stability
in share prices. So, we're seeing some
stability in pricing for example on the
baijiu front. Things seems to have
stabilized a bit on the pricing front
there. Um big thing is the real estate
side. The excess inventory is beginning
to be absorbed and so that's, you know,
the the the price fall in home prices is
beginning to to narrow.
Um so, I think those things once wealth
effect comes in kicks in, I think we
should see a
basically upward re-rating for consumer
stocks.
>> Lorraine, it's not even 9:30 in the
morning you already have me thinking
about baijiu and well, hot pot of that
too. Why not? That's a good combination.
Lorraine thank you so much. Have a good
week ahead. Lorraine Tan there, director
of Asia equity research at Morningstar.
A 50 futures are coming online. The
other contract is of course as of
the last time Hong Kong traded, Hong
Kong markets are still shut today. Lots
more ahead though. This is Bloomberg.
>> Tech will go we're watching as of course
political geopolitical uncertainty
continues to dominate trading sentiment.
We're seeing that whipsaw trading with
oil in focus, stocks in focus, the Iran
deadline coming up
of course in about a day but we're
seeing S&P futures lagging there.
European stocks looking like we'll see a
little bit more brightness at the open
and modest gains here in Asia.
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. All right, I'm reminded that Hong
Kong markets are shut today. In case you
forgot, we were down 7/10 of 1% last
week. Perhaps more pertinent really to
today is we're not really seeing a lot
of
Let's call it shifts from that point
last week. So, markets have been
gyrating.
There has been high deal lack of risk
appetite, but equally I think markets
have also sort of gotten used to these
moving
deadlines. We're not exactly seeing a
rush to the exits as well. So, I think
it's more
hedging being put in place or people
just doing nothing. Plus, of course, we
are coming off a long weekend for many
other markets here in the region.
>> Yes, including here in Sydney, of
course, with that Easter long weekend.
But,
you kind of see perhaps that layer of
complacency, right? Because are we
looking at another situation where it's
that taco trade that will come roaring
back? But, regardless, we're perhaps not
seeing the price action that you might
expect given another deadline is coming
up. But, this is pictures we take a look
at the start of trading only on mainland
China's
markets given that Hong Kong is still
off of that holiday. But, it's
interesting because we have seen from
some analysts including China
Everbright, for example, talking about
the need to position within those very
much domestic sectors. The A-share
markets that they're looking at to see
that real seclusion, if you will, from
the Iran and the oil related risks
there. So, that that is what we're
seeing as we get into the open. A little
bit slow to sort of come properly
online, but certainly the external risks
that we've seen across a lot of Asian
markets are not so applicable for China,
Dave.
>> Yeah.
I think it's
I think when you look at how China's
actually traded
the the the amount of well, the the
measure of resiliency on a benchmark
basis can really be traced down to the
fact that the dividend plays have done
well and some of the banks have done
well.
You have a steepening curve which also
obviously aids the banks. And I think
something that we might need to talk
about more and more as the weeks and
months go by is perhaps the return of
inflation and perhaps what that means,
right? As we anticipate and markets
discount months months in advance. Now,
just speaking of inflation, right? A
reminder perhaps of the the warning
signs for EM
energy importers like the Philippines.
So, inflation coming in. We we knew it
was coming in hot. We knew it was going
to be a massive change from Feb.
But the 4.1% print actually came coming
came in above estimates.
And if you measure March against Feb,
that difference was the biggest upward
shift
in about two and a half decades, right?
Indicative of a guess of how how quickly
the macro can change given of course
fairly extreme price shocks with the
inflation print. But yes, I mean this
was flagged by the central bank and
something that we were largely
expecting, but I guess if this is just
one of the many reminders we'll get in
the coming weeks once more inflation
prints come out from the rest of
the EM complex. Okay, let's let's have a
look at the oil story now, right? So,
we're we had been stuck at about 110 on
on Brent. Not to say that
prices are starting to price out the
war. When you look at the extreme
tightness we're seeing in the physical
market, right? And we'll we'll get to
the analysis later on from Bloomberg
Intelligence, fantastic piece there by
the way, into context, right? So, couple
of things have happened from late last
week. Number one
is the scramble from overseas buyers
pivoting towards US supplies has showed
up in the price spread between West
Texas and Brent. So, US crude is now
pricier than Brent, which is something
that does happen every now and then. It
doesn't happen very often. And as you
can see, that massive swing is
indicative of this change and shift in
demand. Uh number one. Number two is
extreme backwardation, where you have
the two front-end contracts. Brent is
blue,
West Texas is in yellow.
And I think West Texas actually hit a
record in terms of backwardation in
terms of the prompt spread, which
basically it's just underscores as well
this scramble for supplies now. I need
my supply now. We can worry about it
later. Uh the other thing we wanted to
point out though is perhaps the best
indicator of physical demand for
physical oil is dated Brent. And the
last close we had on this late last week
was already at a north of 140, which
actually takes this specific measure
of oil prices back to the highs since
2008. Just something to keep in mind.
And in fact, just on this very note,
right? You compare 141 on dated Brent
and you compare 110 and Brent futures,
uh the take from our folks out of BI is
that
it the futures market is pricing in
perhaps an off-ramp on oil, but the
physical tightness
is actually underscoring the long tail.
We will perhaps need to live with uh far
beyond
the any de-escalation and you know, for
our Bloomberg clients, I highly
recommend of course, folks, uh
look at this. It's it's a really good
piece. It really contextualizes what we
see across many measures of energy
prices and perhaps where this could be
and a couple of weeks, I think.
>> Yeah, what's been quite interesting, I
think, also is just waiting for more
drilling from the US, right? Perhaps we
might have expected to see a bit more
action on that front by now, but uh
there's obviously a waiting fracking and
things like that that's disrupting that
process, but there is an expectation
that more uh US production will come
online soon, but that disruption of
energy supplies through the Strait of
Hormuz is now coming into a sixth week,
sixth week of the war. A former US
energy secretary said the world should
be prepared for a very long impact.
Ernest Moniz told us that includes a
high likelihood of increased inflation.
>> Unless there is a very very rapid
lifting of the clouds from the Middle
East, I think we have to expect
ongoing probably increased inflation
as the
the effects
come in in various time scales. We'll
see we are seeing various commodities
going up now
and there are still delayed effects such
as the impacts on on fertilizers for
example in the in diminishing
potentially crop yields down the road in
in a few months. So I think we're still
fairly early in this game unfortunately
and
we'll we'll see how they how these
prices develop.
>> But I am curious that just on a
hypothetical if for some reason we did
get a resolution to this war and more
importantly a reopening commensurate
with with a pre-war flow out of the
Strait of Hormuz, the second order
effects of that with regards to fuel,
fertilizer, etc. etc. chemicals. How
fast do those prices potentially revert
back to the mean if at all?
>> Well, I think we'll see
some of the prices going back fairly
quickly, but we should be prepared for a
very long
impact as we know
it's not only oil by the way LNG and
then other commodities sulfur
a huge amount of the of the world's
sulfur comes out of the out of the
Middle East and that's essential for
making certain fertilizers for example
uh helium is another commodity that's
absolutely critical for semiconductors
and other other uses. Huge amount coming
out of gutter. And I mentioned that
because uh of course energy
infrastructure in a number of the Gulf
Arab countries has been hit and in
particular
uh the gutter has said that some of the
damage inflicted on its natural gas
facilities, which also produce sulfur,
produce helium, um some of those effects
they are saying could take up to 5 years
to repair. So, with the anticipated
increase in the natural gas markets in
the next years, uh we may be seeing uh
continued elevated prices more on the
year time scale than on the weeks or
months time scale.
>> Shifting gears a little bit, what's the
realistic path to containing Iran's
nuclear program right now?
>> Well, right now the nuclear program
clearly uh is not is not operating uh
given the given the strikes on it
already going back to last June. Uh and
um
uh
so clearly they are not uh capable right
now of of enriching. However, um
all of that technology was indigenously
derived and unless there is continued
military pressure and or diplomatic
resolutions, and of course I would
strongly favor the diplomatic
resolution, we have no reason to think
that they cannot reconstruct that
program.
>> That was a former US Energy Secretary
Ernest Moniz speaking to Bloomberg's
Ramy Inocencio and Isabelle Lee. You can
watch that interview all the day's top
stories in our video hub that
subscribers uh can get to by exploring
live streaming on our Bloomberg TV
shows, our documentaries, reporter
analysis, and more. You can check that
out at bloomberg.com/videos.
This is Bloomberg.
Take a look at some corporate headlines
and Broadcom shares rose in extended
trading after the chipmaker announced a
long-term agreement with Google to
develop and supply tensor processing
units or TPUs. The deal will see
Broadcom supplying components to be used
in Google's next generation AI racks
through to to 2031. The company also
announced an expanded deal with
Anthropic giving the AI startup access
to approximately 3 and 1/2 gigawatts
worth of computing capacity.
Morgan Stanley plans to debut an
interval fund investing mainly in
private credit just as retail investment
vehicles are being hit with record
redemption requests. According to an
April 3rd filing, the North Haven
Strategic Credit Fund is expected to
include a wide spectrum of credit
strategies. It anticipates allowing
redemptions of 5% of outstanding shares
every quarter.
>> Right, Singapore's Foreign Affairs
Minister Vivian Balakrishnan is now, as
you can see, live speaking with our
colleague April Hong. Let us listen in.
>> I stopped trying to get into prediction
markets.
I I I guess from a public policy or
diplomatic perspective, I find it more
useful to look at scenarios, which means
what's the worst that could happen,
what's
likely to happen,
and what's the most benign
scenario. But in all these scenarios
I've looked at
uh
Asia is vulnerable.
A but the Asia does have long-term
prospects and therefore the only
question is what
are we doing
in the immediate term to deal with these
disruptions, and where does that place
us to catch the upside
when it comes.
So, that that's my my mental frame for
making sense of, you know,
the daily
So, uh what do you call it? Truth Social
tweets,
uh the breathless headlines,
and also what actually happens on the
ground.
>> So, in the near term, what is a country
like Singapore doing to minimize the
downside?
>> the first thing we're trying to do, and
you will hear that in Parliament later
today with a series of ministerial
statements,
is we actually need
to brief our population
into what's happening.
And it is a time to be sober.
It is a time to be careful.
It is a time to realize, and I know this
may
sound, you know,
I'm not even sure the markets are fully
pricing.
Well, actually, I'm quite sure the
markets are not fully pricing the
worst-case scenario.
How's that for a a mouthful
of soberness?
Because from where I sit,
and from where And you know, I travel
extensively extensively, and I've met
most of the
the the cast on the global stage, uh I
can think of a lot worse scenarios.
And uh
you you you're watching This is like
watching a worked example in real life.
So, the first point we're trying to be
upfront with our people
and tell them this is serious.
This could get worse.
And we all need seatbelts.
>> So, in that context, when we look at how
we can prepare or mitigate,
what is Singapore doing to, perhaps in
the near term, secure energy supplies? I
mean, according to Bloomberg data,
last year, almost half of our LNG
shipments came from Qatar. What is it
doing in the interim to replace those
supplies?
>> Well,
let's start with like you said, you're
going to get more details in Parliament
today. So, I don't want to
you know, to run ahead of
of the announcements. But let let's So,
let's zoom back a bit
and look at some see energy facts for
Singapore.
Do we have any oil and gas
native to Singapore?
Zero.
How do we generate electricity?
More than 95% of that is from natural
gas.
Where do we get our natural gas from?
Well,
before the last global financial crisis,
you must you may recall we didn't even
have a single LNG terminal.
It was entirely piped
and piped from our region.
The big change is the LNG terminals.
Before
the
the amount that we were getting from
Qatar would have been zero without LNG.
But with LNG terminals, in theory, you
have access to the global market.
What has changed
from 2008
to today as far as the global production
of energy is concerned? And most people
have not yet
figured out.
From 1954
to about 2010,
the world's largest importer of energy
was the United States of America.
After that, because of China's rise
and in particular manufacturing, China
became the largest importer of energy
since about 2010 or thereabouts.
But what has really flipped the switch
is the shale revolution in the United
States. And what President Trump said
the other night,
that America today produces more energy
than Russia and Saudi Arabia combined.
He happens to be right.
Anyway, there is a global market
for energy.
Crude oil,
natural gas,
liquefied natural gas.
And it is true that we can and we do
import from around the world. If you ask
uh Minister Tan See Leng, he will see
you mention Australia, he'll mention
Mozambique.
But the key point is
we will have to pay the full
international going rate
for crude oil
and for LNG.
So, there are two aspects to your
question. First is can you get the
physical stock that you need?
Right? The answer is yes, but
full price.
>> Mhm.
>> And that full price is likely to be
high.
And even if you look at the Straits of
Hormuz, what concerns me is not just
whether the tankers are getting through.
I mean, your Bloomberg data will show
that right now the tankers getting
through are less than 10% of what it was
pre-war. But that's not all, you see.
Even if in 24 hours
the Straits of Hormuz is miraculously
open,
the fact is there has been damage to
infrastructure, to LNG infrastructure,
which will take months and even years to
restore.
So, this global shortfall is sticky.
>> Mhm.
>> It's not something that's going to be
resolved in 24 hours.
And then the other point is that once
you get a significant rise, which you
already have, in energy prices,
I I well what uh
central banks all over the world going
to be concerned about is the stickiness
of inflation.
Because from energy
you get to food get to transport
services even if you talk about AI
one key cost factor for AI
is energy.
Right? So, we are in a different
trajectory.
>> Mhm.
>> a different completely different risk
profile. And my my message you know, is
be prepared.
>> Amidst this, Singapore is also seen as a
country that's able to quickly adjust.
It's been seen as a haven, but to your
point
about being prepared, being ready, that
we are not immune to these external
shocks.
What would you say?
>> So, it's the main point. So, first be
prepared, second remember that we are
not immune.
>> Mhm.
>> All right.
But having said that, it doesn't mean,
you know
we are without agency
and that we don't have options and that
we don't have some firepower. You know,
so I can't help remarking how people
were criticizing the Minister of Finance
who happens to be our Prime Minister for
poor budget marksmanship.
At a time like this
do you want a conservative finance
minister who's got few cards or more
than a few cards up his sleeve, or do
you want to have spent it all
beforehand?
And now be trying to dig into
having basically if you don't have the
res- the fiscal firepower, it means you
have to get into debt.
So, objectively
a small city-state
with no fossil fuel
dependent on imported energy
if we didn't have the reserves,
if we didn't have fiscal
firepower,
if we didn't have global connectivity,
and I mean physical connectivity,
if
we were not
I think the world's sixth largest
refining
point,
if we were not a major bunkering port,
if
we were not at
the
fulcrum
of, in fact, a much more significant
choke point than even the Straits of
Hormuz.
I'm referring to the Straits of Malacca
and Singapore. I'll give you one another
factor. The narrowest point of the
Straits of Hormuz is 21 nautical miles.
Well, most people have not realized the
narrowest point
for the Straits of Singapore is less
than two nautical miles.
There's stuff happening here. But, in
the meantime,
as long as there is no interruption
to choke points in our neighborhood,
the fact that we are such a vital
artery
for the flow of goods,
energy,
capital,
talent, and ideas,
is an advantage. So, I'm making the
point, get real about the downsides and
the risks, but also
have an objective assessment of
Singapore's capability. Don't
overestimate it. I don't believe that we
can be insulated and anesthetized
against all the downside,
but we do have
advantages.
S-
Having a stable, rational, conservative,
fiscally conservative government,
having sovereign wealth funds,
which are generating dividends, rather
than us servicing public debt, which is
the situation in many other countries,
including a certain big superpower.
Being organized rationally
and being able to respond to a crisis
calmly, rationally, and realistically is
a big advantage. So, you see the message
I'm trying to convey that, you know,
this is serious,
but Singapore has some
inherent advantages, which have been
built up over decades. It's not
something you can suddenly, you know,
wave a magic wand
and assume that we have in place. But,
we do have agency. We do have options.
We are organized. Watch out for the
speeches later this afternoon.
>> With that in mind, though, what have we
been seeing in terms of capital flows
into Singapore in the past month or so
amid the war?
>> Well, I think you should ask yourselves
that
and MAS.
But, again, I just want to emphasize
yes,
an oasis of stability,
rationality,
and security
is very attractive. It's even more
attractive in times of volatility and
disruption. But, even in that point, I
wanted to inject this note of caution
that we mustn't assume that even if we
do everything right in Singapore,
that it will always be serene, placid,
peaceful.
That's not the case, you see. And that's
why we have to be upfront with our
people and tell them, "Look, this global
disruption,
this tectonic
rupture
is
going to change everything. And it's
going to make it much harder
for all of us.
Well, it's true we have some buffers in
Singapore, but never assume
that the buffers will insulate you
completely. That's You know, that's the
difficulty of the messaging which we
have to make.
>> It's a rupture
with the US as a catalyst. How would you
assess the US handling of the war so
far? Unclear objectives, mixed messages.
>> Yeah, you're trying to give make me give
an undiplomatic answer.
I I I think I have said
about a week or so ago
I was disappointed that this war broke
out.
I didn't think it was necessary.
I'm not convinced it is wise.
And there have been questions raised
on points of international law.
But
you know, in diplomacy
the equivalent in investment terms is
don't get distracted by sunk costs.
It's a sunk cost.
The question is how do you respond now
to what is happening?
And
assuming you take care of the downside,
is there an upside available?
What I don't want is to engage in
short-term, you know, one-upmanship.
You made a mistake, so I'm going to
benefit. Or there's short-term flows of
capital or even people relocating from
one place to the other. Because the
larger backdrop is that trouble anywhere
in the world is bad news for all of us.
We do not benefit
by other people's travails.
So, don't get into that kind of game.
Second, don't try to second-guess what
the big powers and superpowers are. They
have other options
which a small city-state doesn't have.
And they have other considerations. And
in particular, there are other domestic
political considerations which in fact
motivates the behavior for countries on
the international stage.
So, I don't get, you know, so I'm not
into this. I find it unproductive
to stick adjectives
or engage in pejorative name-calling.
It's unproductive.
Our job is take the world as it is,
take care of the downside,
position ourselves well,
and
don't don't engage in a zero-sum
one-upmanship.
>> That's fair enough.
As a small state, how do you think small
states can defend international law at a
time where major powers seem to be
ignoring it?
>> Well, number one, get our own house in
order.
Number two, we ourselves better comply
with international law.
And I find
it convenient No, not convenient, it's
wrong word. I find it very useful
for Singapore
that everyone knows, you know,
we are rule-bound,
we comply with international law, we
support the UN Charter,
we
believe in the sanctity of contract.
We don't confiscate assets
or reserves or oil or gas,
even though so much is flowing past us
or even stored here.
You get what I mean? That
reputation,
and in particular, not panicking
during a crisis. I mean, that's the same
I'm not sure whether you recall, during
COVID, the early phase of COVID-19,
there was a run on masks.
And especially the N95 masks.
Actually, there was significant
production of N95 masks in Singapore.
But we didn't say we're going to
confiscate or impound. We told the
companies, fulfill your contracts.
Sanctity of contract. So again, can you
see a pattern
of behavior? We may be boring, we may be
rule bound, we may be predictable, but
we are consistent and more important, we
are reliable.
That's the source of our competitive
advantage.
>> What about how assertive Singapore is
going to be against this backdrop? It is
after all taking on the ASEAN
chairmanship
next year.
>> You use the word assertive.
Uh
I'm not comfortable with the word
assertive given that we're a small tiny
city-state
exposed to the vagaries of the world
and subject to the actions
of big powers
and even regional middle powers. So I'm
not a fan of the word assertive. But I
am a fan of the word to have our agency.
Meaning, we have options.
And we have the freedom to be ourselves
and to choose our actions. Specifically
for ASEAN,
it is also informed by my third point.
That Singapore cannot be an oasis of
success and security and stability if us
is ASEAN
is not at peace
and stable. And if ASEAN is not growing
and if the people, you know, nearly 700
million of us in Southeast Asia do not
feel that there are good prospects for
the future. So
uh we're we're still working through our
themes that we we work on.
But some parts are obvious,
making sure there's peace
within ASEAN. And you know, the painful
reminder
from last year is you can't take it for
granted.
Unfortunately now,
you have had
a border war between two ASEAN member
states. Fortunately,
there's a ceasefire now. Problems are
not completely resolved.
You still have what is
in effect a civil war going on
in one other ASEAN state.
So, you can't take it for granted. So,
first thing, peace
and stability.
Second,
can we increase intra-ASEAN trade?
You know, if you
ASEAN
our trade with the superpowers is
significant.
We're exposed to a series of tariffs,
which in our view is unfair,
unnecessary, and unhelpful. But
nevertheless, we'll have to get by.
But
is there a lot more scope for
intra-ASEAN trade? Answer must be yes.
Can we make sure that payment systems,
digital systems, are interoperable
within ASEAN?
As a kind of
intangible but essential infrastructure
for economic integration, for trade, and
important for this audience, for
investments. Are there opportunities for
us to do more
within ASEAN? If so, the answer is yes.
Is there more opportunity for
connectivity, for infrastructure, for
power grids,
for accelerating the green transition?
You know,
going green is not just a matter of
ideology.
Today, the key question in energy
is resilience.
And are your energy supplies and energy
system
resilient to some sometimes sudden
sometimes
unexpected
disruptions.
And again, the logic there
for integration
and seeking safety in numbers within
ASEAN is quite obvious. So so I you can
see the the direction of travel.
But wait for the announcements later
this year.
She's always trying to get more stuff
out of me.
>> Waiting with baited breath. No, the
thing is
>> No, but but you realize what I'm saying
>> Yeah.
>> You know, I hope makes sense.
And I hope you can see that
you know, it's not a sudden move or
sudden, you know, flashlight
>> Mhm.
>> you know, minds, but we are building on
decades
of
accumulated
strategic competitive advantages.
And we are being predictable and the
most important thing is to maintain
trust
and to be reliable.
Even for your industry
it is about trust. It is about
reliability.
And there is value to that.
Real financial
monetary value to that.
>> Minister, some of the things that you've
highlighted that ASEAN can do more of
these are things that we've been talking
about as a grouping for years.
Do you think the Iran war
makes a fundamental rethink in how ASEAN
neighbors view each other possible? You
know, we've got to stick together even
more now. Cuz if not us, then who?
>> Well, I
the short answer is yes.
The imperative for us to do more
together
is yes.
But are there potential derailers? Yes,
because in a crisis, sometimes people
panic.
So, for instance, you know, my reference
just now to making a commitment not to
engage
in sudden export restrictions because
you're worried, because in fact, if
everyone engages in that kind of
knee-jerk
uh
reflex
protective
initial protective measures, you in fact
can make the situation worse.
So, the answer is we should
work more closely together.
We should integrate
more deeply.
We should try to support each other.
But before we even get there, we got to
make sure every nobody panics.
And you know, it's like if there's an
emergency in this room,
uh in theory, the exit mark doors are
marked. In theory, everyone should be
able to get out safely, but if we all
stampede, there will be injuries. It's
the same analogy.
>> How do you see China positioning amid
the global ructions? Do you think it's
ready to take up the mantle of global
leadership?
>> China always reminds us
that they are not
a hegemon
and they're not interested in
so-called taking up
a global leadership role.
But quite wisely, China's also
positioning itself as, you know,
a supporter of multilateralism
of
international law.
It positions itself as an oasis of
predictability and
stability.
So, you know, does China have some
relative
advantages and opportunities in this
disrupted world? It has.
Will it replace the previous underwriter
of the world order? No, it won't.
It doesn't see itself in that position.
I think China
if you examine the statements and then
from our own trips there,
uh they know that they've got
significant strategic challenges
domestically,
which they're trying to fix.
And China
would much prefer
a stable, functioning world order
and global economy
than a disrupted one
with wars and
choke points
emerging all over the world.
Because don't forget even if you even if
you talk about the Straits of Hormuz,
the biggest
importer
of energy from that is China. So, you
you see my point? That yes,
by China being stable,
careful,
deliberate, focusing on its domestic
economy,
and not trying to take advantage or make
things worse on the global stage. These
are all strategic In my view,
strategically wise
uh
actions to take.
>> You talk about China seeing
opportunities. Do you think it would
take an opportunity to expand its global
footprint, including on the issue of
Taiwan?
>> footprint is expanding anyway,
right? I mean, look, just think about
the last 25 years.
When China joined the WTO, its
share of global GDP was, I think, 4%.
Today, it's somewhere 18 or 20% of
global GDP. And if you take a longer
historical look
over centuries or millennia,
whenever China was at peace
and united
and the Great Wall was intact
and there was not warring kingdoms
within China
and they were able to run
a continental-size economy with all the
economies of scale that it afforded,
China usually accounted for between 25
to 30% of global GDP.
So, as far as they are concerned, that
journey is not over. They're still
another 5 to 10% of global GDP that they
want to achieve.
And the best way for them to achieve
that actually is to have a stable global
environment.
So, my point is that China has more than
enough work on its plate.
Uh
it is I do not see China as a disruptive
force.
Um but you know, again, you know, I'm
trying to avoid pejorative and personal
and undiplomatic remarks. Just
assess the situation as it is
and try to assess the motivations and
the behavior patterns
of major and middle powers accordingly.
For us in Southeast Asia,
the potential is there. But as I said
earlier,
keep the peace,
integrate more deeply.
>> Minister, I think we have time for one
final question.
>> Yes, we have 22 seconds.
>> I'm sure you can make it quick within
that time. What what else do you think
Singapore is rethinking strategically
given this global backdrop?
>> First, double down on our strengths.
Right? So,
fiscal firepower,
reliability,
openness,
and
support for international law,
and the sanctity of contract.
Actually, these are not new.
Right? These are not new.
But, what we need to be prepared for
is that
there is also
while all these breathless headlines are
occurring,
there's also a revolution going on in
three arenas.
Digital, especially AI, which we haven't
had time to talk about.
Renewable energy, and biotechnology.
So, remember my point about looking for
the future upside.
The means of production of the future
world economy are changing in front of
our eyes.
And the most important strategic work
for us
in both the economic and social arena
for Singapore
is how do we prepare our workforce
for these three
revolutions.
These are occurring simultaneously
and synergistically,
and faster. I mean, for any one of us,
you know, who codes or uses AI, and I
put myself in that category, I can feel
the change week by week.
My AI bot gets better, smarter,
more helpful
week by week.
So,
basically, deal with the crisis,
get over the hump, make sure people
don't panic, but make sure their
seatbelts and helmets are on. But, the
greatest challenge is to prepare for the
future, because the future is unfolding
now and here. So, I hope, you know,
in your discussions for the rest of it.
Think about these three
revolutions. What does this mean for
investment opportunities? What does this
mean for jobs? What does this mean for
GDP growth? What does this mean even
for a change in the rank order
of major economies? And there will be
changes.
And because we are small and because we
are a focal point,
a node,
a vital node in a global network,
and we want to survive, we have to get
ahead of the curve.
So, actually, that's the part that we
need most work on and don't lose sight
of the long-term
trends, the driving forces, and the
opportunities and threats just because
there's a crisis now.
So, I hope I've given you all a
you know, a reasonably balanced,
realistic, you know, you know, picture
of the downside,
but actually, what I'm really after
is to be able to harvest the upside.
But I'll be as I said, I'll be quite
happy to be wrong in the short-term
because then it's all bonus for all of
you.
>> Minister, we've overrun, but I think
everyone in the room forgives you for
that.
Thank you for your perspective. We
really appreciate it.
>> And that was a conversation with
Singapore's Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Vivian Balakrishnan. That's
speaking to our April home. Well, still
ahead, we'll take a closer look at how
the Iran war is reshaping Asia's
geopolitical landscape. HKU's End Zafan
and political scientist Richard
Heydarian joins us to discuss whether
the region is shifting towards Beijing.
This is Bloomberg.
President Trump is insisting that
freedom of navigation through the Strait
of Hormuz must be a part of any deal to
eat and the Middle East war. That's as
he escalates threats to obliterate key
Iranian infrastructure if his terms
aren't met before Tuesday. Jamana
Burchett, who's the anchor of Horizons
Middle East and Africa joins us now out
of Dubai and I'm sure the region is
bracing. The world is really bracing to
see what happens as we head towards this
deadline and the trouble is we know that
the sort of contours of what President
Trump wants, his objectives,
his goals and what he's negotiating on a
little of that remains uncertain.
>> Well, Heidi, he's spoken a lot over the
course of the weekend and of course the
major deadline and the major threat came
on Sunday with that expletive-laden
social media post on Truth Social. Once
again, warning Iran to come to the
negotiating table to agree to the deal
on the terms set by the United States.
If not, then they would have no option
but to destroy power plants and quotes
and quotes to blow up everything over
there. He then later said that that
deadline was actually 8:00 p.m. Eastern
time tonight, which translates to about
4:00 in the morning in the region over
here. So, about 20 hours from now. So,
the threats are coming thick and fast.
At the same time, what we do understand
and various media outlets have been
reporting this that there has been a
last-ditch effort potentially to come to
a diplomatic solution. The mediators
have been working really hard led by the
likes of Pakistan alongside Egypt and
Turkey passing through the messages from
one side to the other. At this point
though, from what we can tell and of
course the clock is ticking especially
in this part of the world, there doesn't
seem to be a lot of hope about a
diplomatic resolution. And so then
Trump's options become either extend the
deadline again at the risk of eroding
some of that US credibility or follow
through on those threats and really ramp
up militarily on those strikes on key
power plants and infrastructure or back
down without a deal, which of course
would give Iran the grounds for
declaring a victory.
>> Have we Have we heard from the other
other side, Joumana?
>> So, many different comments over the
weekend suggesting defiance as ever.
They're also quick to take to social
media. You know, you have the speaker of
the parliament regularly taunting
President Trump uh saying that they're
not going to back down and that the US
in turn should have a deadline in order
to come to Iran's terms. Uh but the New
York Times reporting overnight that Iran
have indeed put forward their own 10
points of what they would like to see in
order for the war to end. And what
they've said is they don't want a a
truce. They don't want a a
semi-permanent ceasefire. What they do
want is a permanent end to the war,
assurances that it will never happen
again. New York Times also reporting
that they have a new condition, which is
that the Israeli strikes on Lebanon also
stop. And then in addition to that, they
say that they would open the Strait of
Hormuz, but with a fee. And that fee
would be $2 million a ship uh for
passageway. And of course, this is
something that would be very difficult
for Gulf nations and even the rest of
the world to swallow. So, again, it
seems as though the two sides are very
far apart. When Trump was asked about it
at the press conference yesterday, he
said, "It seems like we have an active
willing participant on the other side,
and they would like to be able to do a
deal." So, the next 24 hours is going to
be key, guys.
>> Absolutely. Yeah, we are
in fact at this point, less than 24
hours from that initial 8:00 p.m. uh
Eastern Time deadline. Uh Joumana, thank
you so much. Joumana Bercetche, there
our Anchor Horizons Middle East and and
Africa here. Uh what does this mean for
markets? So, there's that, and there's
also the Samsung story, which is
partially offsetting some of the
weakness that we're seeing across the
region. We are coming off highs at the
day though on a benchmark basis, Lenteng
Chu, our managing editor for Asia
equities is with us from Singapore and
how investors are positioning ahead of
that deadline, Lenteng.
>> Yeah, basically not a lot of real
positioning around that deadline. If you
see the trading volume across markets in
Asia, they're down, you know, 20 to 30%
from the average 20 30-day
moving average and investors across the
board that we spoke to including macro
funds, equity desks and even oil traders
have said that the risk of being caught
wrong-footed is extremely high as we
have all seen Trump flip-flopped on the
deadline and on the rhetoric towards
Iran multiple times in the last 2 weeks
or so. So, after being burned many
times, investors are now changing their
behavior towards betting around those
deadlines. They now choose to have
lighter positioning of risks, shorter
time horizon and prefer to see more
concrete developments before putting
risk back on. So, to many of the
traders, the key right now is capital
preservation instead of making
aggressive bets around that event.
>> China has been touted by many as
something of a haven for many investors.
Within sectors, are we starting to see
preferences?
>> Yeah, after a knee-jerk reaction of
piling into energy stocks, people are
now looking for sectors with improving
fundamentals and decent dividend yields
and Chinese banks seem to be fitting
that bill quite well and they're
becoming increasingly favored by
investors. Their latest earning earnings
results have shown less margin pressure
with higher energy prices. The PBOC is
also less likely to cut rates or roll
out more easing measures and that is
another positive for banks' margins.
Plus, major Chinese banks are expected
to pay a dividend yield of 5%. That
compares with 2.8% or so for the CSI 300
as a whole and about 1.8% for the
10-year government bonds. So, for that
reason, the banks are looking quite
attractive right now for investors.
>> Bloomberg managing editor for Asia
equities, leaning to the We are watching
Samsung, of course, after they reported
an eight-fold jump in preliminary
quarterly profit. Bloomberg Intelligence
thinks that the company can keep the
momentum going into the next quarter.
Senior analyst Masahiro Wakasugi joins
us now. So,
Masa, how how much momentum do we see
here?
>> Uh yes,
if we look at the Samsung earnings, we
see that the quite a strong pricing
situation for both DRAM and non-flash
memory. And
probably this a strong pricing momentum
could continue in the second quarter and
all probably in
2026.
We think that
Samsung DRAM a very selling selling
price increased around maybe 70-80%
quarter-over-quarter. And probably the
non-flash memory ASP
rose around probably 80-90% and which is
quite in line with
Kioxia's revenue guidance for the March
quarter. So, I think that still, you
know, we have some more room for pricing
to
go higher for Samsung's DRAM and
non-flash memory.
>> Masa, here. David here. Is that
Is that 90% Let's say it's Let's say
it's 90% of what this this blockbuster
figure that they reported. Is that
actually a good thing? And what would
you be looking for once they break out
really
what the profit number looks like over
the next few weeks?
>> Uh yes,
probably the you know, earnings momentum
should be quite important. And
going forward, maybe you know, we have
to look for the
you know, the the reason why we see the
strong number for these AI supply chains
that
we see the strong capex from the
hyperscalers and
maybe you know, one
potential concern will be the slowdown
of the capex by hyperscalers. So,
I think that the that should be the one
key point of you know, which we have to
watch going forward. But, uh uh I think
that the AI demand will continue going
forward. So, I have no you know, very
much in in a concern on the AI demand in
the foreseeable future.
>> Masahiro Wakasugi, our senior analyst
out of Bloomberg Intelligence there. The
initial take
on the initial earnings, preliminary
earnings coming out of Samsung. Right, a
glance at markets right now. Lots more
ahead. This is the China show.
Mainland markets are coming back online
today following also a long weekend. We
don't have Hong Kong today, so there is
no stock connect and volumes obviously
are being taken down more than a notch
or two.
This just out, what the impact will be
on the Chinese economy. Morgan Stanley
dropping this about 40 minutes back in
our inboxes. So, they've actually cut
their growth projections for China to
4.7. And in the worst case, so they've
laid out several scenarios here. And a
lot of it really depends on where oil
goes and how long it actually stays
elevated. So, in a risk case, oil
reaching 150 to 180 through to the
second quarter could slow growth from
the current 4.7 down to 4.2%
this year. Geopolitics may entrench
supply-centric policy delaying this
rebalancing that they are expecting
obviously there
from the Chinese economy this year. Just
to get that up to speed to you guys. Uh
equity markets are trading sideways.
Lots more ahead here on the China show.
We'll in fact have a look at how maybe
this extreme oil shock
is forcing some US allies in the region
to rethink
parts of that relationship. More ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
>> President Trump
uh speaking there with the crew of uh
Artemis at the moment uh in something of
an unscheduled uh plan after we see the
NASA crew heading back to Earth after
their record
trip around the moon. Let's take a
listen.
>> Love to be here, but maybe we won't
quite make it in terms of timing. But,
we will be up in the moon, and that's
going to happen soon. So, America will
be second to none in space and
everything else that we're doing, and we
will continue to lead the whole thing
into the stars. This incredible journey
into the stars. So, I just wanted to an
honor to speak to you, and I wanted to
congratulate each and every one of you.
And tell me, what is the most
unforgettable part of this really
historic day? The whole world is
watching and listening. Please tell me.
>> President, this call is certainly
special to all of us, and we really have
a lot of faith in our administrator
Jared Isaacman, who is with you. We
appreciate his leadership in NASA and in
the international community. We are
doing great things, and we are proud to
be a part of
I have to tell you uh as we came around
uh the near side of the moon, seeing all
the sights that we've seen from Earth
for all of our lives, but we're seeing
them from a different perspective. And
then we started to get a glimpse of the
And we saw sites Orientale, uh sites
that that no human has ever seen before,
not even in Apollo, and that was amazing
for us. And then the surprise of the
day, we just came out of an eclipse
where the sun
moon and the entire dark moon about that
big right out the window that we were
watching. We could see the corona of the
sun, and then we could see the planet
train lineup, and we
and Mars, and all of us commented how
excited we are to watch this nation and
this planet become a two-planet species.
>> That is fantastic. You know, I had a
decision to make in my first term, and
the decision is what are we going to do
at NASA? Are we going to
have it uh be revived, or are we going
to close it down? And I had very little
hesitation, and it's really great to
have somebody like Jared involved
because he really makes it much easier
for me, but it was not even a question
in my own mind. Uh we just We've We've
spent what we had to do. And then of
course we have Space Force, and Space
Force is very much related to what
you're doing. And that was my baby. That
was a very important one, and
uh it's turning out it'll turn out to be
truly one of the most important, I
believe, decisions I've ever made. So,
we're very proud of Space Force, and
we're very proud of all of you. Does
anybody else have anything to say? A lot
of people listening.
>> NASA's four Artemis astronauts, they're
speaking with President Trump as they
head uh back home after swinging behind
the moon in a journey that shattered
space travel distance record, has
brought people the closest they've been
to the lunar surface in more than 50
years. So, we're seeing there the four
astronauts in the Lockheed Martin uh
built Orion capsule coming within an
estimate of just over 4,000 mi of the
lunar surface. Uh we have got of course
heard uh
very deep sense of pride uh from
President Trump there with the mission
serving as really a dress rehearsal
meant to test vehicles that will
eventually be used to help land humans
on the lunar surface. That timeline in
potentially the next 2 years.
Well, David, in the meantime, there's
plenty for us to be contending with back
here on Earth.
>> Yeah, I mean, we we've barely scratched
the surface
in as far as ocean exploration is
concerned. Oh, I think you mean the
other the other stuff that's happening.
Yes.
Um uh there is of course there are of
course a lot of pressing issues here
uh
back back on Earth, right? So, we have
this war
uh
uh in Iran in the Middle East. The
conflict there has really upended
energy markets and really nowhere is
that more keenly felt than here in the
Asia-Pacific. And I think we talked
about Philippine inflation about earlier
on and well, we'll talk more about that
in a moment, but just statistic, right?
uh the projections at that point, over
80% of oil and energy LNG shipped
through the Strait of Hormuz actually
came to this part of the world to Asian
markets. Now, the Economic Research
Institute for ASEAN and East Asia says
countries including the likes of the
Philippines and Thailand are among the
most exposed uh to crude disruptions.
Their study suggests that most ASEAN
economies have enough reserves last get
this, just 20
uh to 50 days, Heidi.
>> Still so much uncertainty, right? And
that's really
been seen to be triggering unrest across
the region as well. In the Philippines,
transport workers have gone on strike
over rising fuel costs. In Thailand,
we've seen panic buying amid shortages.
Indian opposition MPs have also staged
protests over a cooking gas crunch there
that's squeezed consumers. All of this
uncertainty prompting the Singapore
foreign minister to also describe
America as a quote revisionist power
earlier, suggesting that a US-led
post-war order is being quickly eroded.
>> Yeah, in in fact, just on that last
thought, Heidi, analysts say it's also
presenting really an opportunity, this
gap, for China to step in and cast
itself uh as a more stable and reliable
partner, especially for economies in
this part of the world. In fact, for
uh discussion on the topic here and how
really the the region, the shifting
views in the region, uh let's bring in
our guest to talk us through this. Uh
Han Enze is a associate professor at the
University of Hong Kong's Department of
Politics and Public Administration. And
joining us out of Manila is political
scientist and columnist Richard
Heydarian, who is the author of the book
The Indo-Pacific, Trump, China, and the
New Struggle for global mastery.
Richard, let me let me let me start with
you because
this is perhaps very pronounced in the
case of the Philippines, which is a US
ally,
but the squeeze in the energy markets
and the inflation and I guess the
challenges that's really bringing the
economy
is somewhat forcing a shift in focus
towards perhaps closer ties with with
China.
How real is this shift, Richard?
>> I mean, first of all, I've been in
communication with folks who are in the
Senate. Uh
soon I'm going to talk to the
presidential spokesman also to figure
out what is exactly the situation
because we're getting a lot of mixed
signal and information about how much
reserves does the Philippine have, uh
what is the status of the energy
security of the country, lack thereof.
Uh but what is very clear is that the
Philippines, I think, was the first
country in the world to declare a
national en- energy emergency. And
shortly before that, of course,
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos
Jr. is known for a very tough stance on
the South China Sea disputes, for very
being very close to the United States
and other like-minded uh partners in the
region. Just before that, he had an
interview with you guys on Bloomberg
when he said that the region as a whole,
not only the Philippines, is going to
confront a very, very serious
restructuring in terms of its
relationship with China, which was his
polite way of saying that now that the
Americans have put us in this bind, in
this massive energy insecurity and
economic crisis, uh we really have to
hedge our bets. And part of hedging our
bets is potentially reopening
communication channels with China,
including on issues that are very
sensitive, uh geopolitical sensitive,
legal and political sensitive, and that
includes uh disputed energy resources in
parts of the South China Sea that are
claimed by both the Philippines and
China. And I think that's quite big,
something big. And over the past few
days, we saw that some of the Philippine
senators, including the Senate President
of the Philippines, these are people who
were posturing as tough on China not
long ago, posturing patriotically on
this issue, now are saying that they
support a joint exploration agreement
between the Philippines and China in the
South China Sea. So, I think this is a a
strong signal from the Philippine
government, probably signal of
frustration with the United States going
ahead with this war without any
consideration for its impact on its
allies, but it's also a strong signal
that the Philippines is open to have a
much more pragmatic approach in its
relationship with the Chinese.
>> Uh Richard, just to follow up on that,
right? So, how
That's a good point you bring up, a a
statement of frustration. You know, that
adage where you can't really trust a
statement of a someone who is under
duress, right? Because someone That is
an extreme scenario that individual is
in. And I wonder how much public support
really is there for that shift? Or is
Are these statements just taking place
in in a very extreme scenario when it
comes to the economy?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Good question, David.
I think absolutely the the devil is in
the details. Uh
we don't know what do we exactly mean by
this. Is this a service contract? Is
this going to be in the Reed Bank? Is
this going to be a joint development
agreement whereby the Philippines and
China have to recognize each other's
sovereign claims and kind of try to work
it out under the international law,
particularly United Nations Convention
of the Sea? How's the Philippines going
to work around its constitutional
restrictions on this on on the fact that
there was a 2016 arbitrary tribunal
ruling on this issue whereby it put to
question some of China's claims in the
area. I think the devil is in the
details. What is clear is that the
Philippines is signaling frustration and
I would say yes to a certain degree even
desperation because operationally
speaking it's going to take us years if
not more
even if we overcome the constitutional
political hurdles if indeed we move
ahead with exploration and then
development of those resources. When in
fact when it comes to the Hormuz Strait
of Hormuz challenge we're looking at
energy security crisis as you mentioned
earlier in the coming weeks and the
coming months. So there's a there's an
issue of time frame also here but
there's also an issue of state of mind
here and let's not forget the
Philippines will soon get an into its
own election season and the frontrunner
to be the next Philippine president as
of now is Vice President Sara Duterte
who's known for her very pragmatic if
not friendly ties towards China. So the
other thing is that the China-friendly
voices in the Philippines are feeling
the wind in the in their sails and I
think that's also going to have some
long-term implications for domestic
debates in the Philippines on the
direction of our relationship with
China.
>> And
we talk often about the opportunity that
arises for Beijing particularly in the
context of this conflict but this
narrative is not new, right? Almost 10
years ago we were hearing from President
Xi talking about you know China as a new
champion for the rules-based
international order at at Davos but does
the war give Beijing
a unique opportunity here?
>> I think so. I mean especially in
Southeast Asia we see that popularity of
of China is in is increasing during the
past few years, right? I mean, if you
look at Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand,
etc. Basically,
uh according to various polls, China's
popularity are much more than the United
States. Um so, that means basically for
many countries that previously perhaps
are more ambivalent um towards China or
the US now has clearly signaled that
interest in working together with China.
And at the same at the same time, China
has positioned itself as a champion for
renewable energies EVs, like anything.
Uh so, that means energy security right
now that's going on in Southeast Asia
really indicates that, you know, having
good relations with China will benefit
those countries' economy as their
long-term, you know, future. Uh so, I
think that is the reason why I think um
you know, the the tide really shifting
towards the China side.
>> And so, what are the challenges? Because
we know that China, the leadership is
constantly dealing with its own domestic
challenges, its economic challenges on
trade as well. Does it have the
bandwidth to be able to
you know, take take on this new
responsibility, right? And does it come
with um diplomatic responsibilities,
like being able to
have a say in what Iran does?
>> I I don't think necessarily it is more
taking on more responsibility by
Beijing. Rather, it's sort of that
natural consequence of, for example,
when China domestically will have an
over overproduction, right? Of many of
the renewable energy sort of uh um um
factories and other things. And then, so
which means that um now really really
vindicating that Beijing's plan for
export of its its renewable energy
industries across to Southeast Asia in
terms of, you know, solar, in terms of
wind, in terms of in your electronic
vehicle, etc. Is going to make sense. Um
so, I think that is not necessarily
saying that Beijing is going to take a
more high-profile role in mediating or
sort of uh you know, I don't know, uh
regulating uh many of the international
issues uh, surrounding Middle East as
well Asia rather than I mean as what
people say like Beijing doesn't need to
do much. Just have to wait for the US to
to to to mess it up.
>> And that's a good point. I want to bring
that in because there is a view out
there that, you know, you you you don't
get in the way when you're when you when
your enemy is making a mistake, I think.
The are there specific economies or
countries in whether that's Southeast
Asia or the broader Asian region that
you think
uh,
who might be on the fence or might be on
closer to the orbit of the US that might
actually now find themselves closer
to the to the Chinese orbit.
>> Right. So, for me, um, what's test right
now is the countries that are US allies,
uh, treaty allies and also the countries
that host American military bases.
>> Mhm.
>> And I think what's really happening in
the Middle East this time, you know, you
know, in the war in Iran basically
indicates that sometimes this might be a
liability. And if that become a
liability, then whether those countries
will rethink and this sort of
relationship with the US is going to
make sense because ultimately American
interests might diverge from those
countries' national interest. Uh, so if
that happens, then they have to really
double think whether they need to
continue on this path or not.
>> Richard, I'll bring you in on that
thought where you do have
let's call it US military presence and
you know, a lot of what you have in
these, you know, when you look at US
allies in the region, it comes with a
unique blanket of, let's call it,
security, we'll come to your defense
uh, if if if need be. How do you think
US allies in the region that do fall
under that sort of orbit need to be
thinking about that value add
of US security guarantees or is that
mostly a a thing of the past now at this
point.
>> Well, I mean as we speak the Iranians
are basically reinventing modern warfare
through saturation strategy, mass
production of
relatively cheap drones, and
increasingly advanced missiles have
clearly overwhelmed and and really some
would even say completely dismantled the
American military bases across the
Persian Gulf. So, that is a laboratory
of of of data that the Chinese are going
to study very carefully, especially
because are apparently using vital and
and relying on some support intelligence
information support on Chinese and the
Russians. So, there's that and obviously
here in Southeast Asia we're also
watching it because, you know, as we
speak the Singaporeans, the Japanese,
Filipinos, all of us are hosting one or
another different sorts of facilities,
whether it's
R&R and maintenance on the part of
Singaporeans, whether it's a full-scale
military base in the case of Japanese.
And in the case of the Philippines it's
still a moving target, right? We don't
we cannot have American military bases
legally speaking. That's
unconstitutional
since the end of Cold War, but the
Americans have been trying to build
facilities with rotational access. The
exact status of that, the kind of weapon
systems they can deploy,
the expansion of the parameters of those
facilities geographically, and also the
sensitivity of their location, all of
those things are still being negotiated
as we speak. All of those things are
still under consideration. So, obviously
the conflict in Iran is going to
directly restructure not only broadly
our relationship with China, but also
restructure our strategic calculus, our
defense cooperation coordinates with the
Americans. And of course none of this
happens in an isolation over the past
decade, whether it's Trump one, Biden,
Trump two, the general strategy is that,
you know, China is just so big and
influential that the only way to
effectively constrain it is through an
integrated deterrent strategy, meaning
all everyone has to pitch in. There has
to be this coordination with Japanese,
with the Filipinos, with Singaporeans
and among others. Now, that's going to
be much more difficult if each of these
parties is beginning to uh will begin to
recalibrate the relationship towards
China or some of them get cold feet
about going all in uh with America or
all in with helping America, let's say,
on a Taiwan contingency. Or in the case
of the Philippines, also how far should
we push back against the Chinese in the
South China Sea. Uh so, that's why this
is a moving target, and that's why the
restructuring of the conversation will
have serious operational implications
down the road potentially.
>> Yeah, and it's an interesting
perspective from Australia as well in
this part of the Pacific, but I do
wonder in addition to what has been a
you know, a pretty obvious pivot away
from China over the past few years by
the US, you now have the drawdown of not
just that sentiment, but the drawdown of
weaponry as well. How worried would you
be when it comes to Taiwan?
>> Well, I mean, we see already in Taiwan
that the KMT party's leadership is
signaling that, you know, maybe not now
because the DPP is still in control, but
this based on my own conversation with
Taiwanese folks earlier this year. I
mean, they're already signaling that
they still want a soft landing sometime
down the road. We saw also earlier this
year there were attempts by the KMT,
who's obviously powerful in the
parliament, to frustrate efforts at uh
increasing Taiwanese defense spending,
increasing Taiwanese purchase of
high-end American weapon system, which
is one of the supposed preconditions of
Trump to be much more forthcoming in
America's commitment to Taiwan in an
event of contingency. But we know that
any effective way to deter Chinese
kinetic action, or should it happen, to
protect Taiwan, it will have to be
coordinated. The Japanese will have to
be involved, the Filipinos have to be
involved. So, you need basically a great
wall of missile defense systems, a great
wall of operational coordination from
Guam to Okinawa to northern Philippines
and obviously Taiwan. Now, all of those
things will have to be studied again
very carefully in light of what's
happening in the Persian Gulf right now
because whatever the Iranians can do,
which obviously has surprised a lot of
people, the Chinese can do on a far
larger scale and with growing
sophistication. So, the game the game
plan has completely changed in Asia or
at least there's a wake-up call wake-up
call in this part of the world.
>> As a Hanoi Southeast Asia professor at
the University of Hong Kong's Department
of Politics and Public Administration,
political scientist and columnist
Richard Heydarian there joining us. This
is Bloomberg.
Taking you through some corporate
headlines and Broadcom shares rose in
extended trading after the chip maker
announced a long-term agreement with
Google to develop and supply tensor
processing units or TPUs. The deal will
see Broadcom supplying components to be
used in Google's next generation AI
racks through 2031. The company also
announced an expanded deal with
Anthropic giving the AI startup access
to approximately 3 and 1/2 gigawatts
worth of computing capacity.
Morgan Stanley plans to debut an
interval fund investing mainly in
private credit just as retail investment
vehicles are being hit with record
redemption requests. According to an
April 3rd filing, the North Haven
Strategic Credit Fund is expected to
include a wide spectrum of credit
strategies. It anticipates allowing
redemptions of 5% of outstanding shares
every quarter.
A Goldman Sachs private credit fund has
investors sought to pull just under 5%
of their cash in the first quarter
narrowly escaping a broader exodus that
has forced peers to cut withdrawals.
Goldman says that's down to a reliance
on institutional investors rather than
wealthy individuals. It's telling
shareholders that a meaningful shift in
the lending environment is a
fierce recent competition is beginning
to ease.
This is Bloomberg.
>> 50 trillion won was the figure that the
prelim operating profit figure that
Samsung came out with beating
estimates. In fact, it was a figure that
analysts had expected a company to
achieve later on this year. They came
early as far as that was concerned. So,
this is really giving us something more
to think about in as far as AI
offsetting some of the geopolitical risk
premium out there. Uh let's flip the
page, please. And just speaking of,
right? So, this time around this time
tomorrow, we'll be in the
thick of things. What I What I mean by
that is the US president has set a
Tuesday
8:00 p.m. Eastern Time deadline for Iran
to make a deal. futures are indicating
that they're trading sideways. Not a lot
of volumes coming through.
Um and it does seem we are I guess in
some ways somewhat used to uh what's
taking place there. Uh let's see. Let's
see whether or not we do get that
escalation that
seems to be possible uh uh on the cards.
Okay. Um oil on your screens. Couple of
things. You might note that West Texas
now trading at a premium to Brent, which
I guess is underscores this pivot back
to
US supplies.
And on on top of this, too, it's worth
pointing out that the oil price spike
has now pushed Morgan Stanley to
downgrade their growth forecast for
China to 4.7. And in the event we get to
150 to 180 on Brent, that then means
that growth forecast gets pushed down
even further to 4.2 in that specific
worst-case
scenario. Okay. Uh that's a look at
markets right now. And uh we are just
about done for the show 4/10 of 1% to
the upside. We will see you all tomorrow
here on the China show inside with
Haslinda Amin is coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.